#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy,Phase-Support

= Introduction =

Here's a set of screenshots for setting up raw printing through OS X.  This was especially useful for using the [jZebra application] for printing to a raw printer from a web page running on an OS X workstation.  Tested Nov 6, 2009 on OS X 10.5 running CUPS 1.3.8.

= Details =

  # Load Safari or Firefox to [http://localhost:631] and click The "Administration" tab, then "Add Printer"
  # Type the name of your printer and click "Continue"
  # Be patient as the CUPS server responds to the new printer request
  # For device, leave default "AppSocket/HP JetDirect" and click "Continue"
  # For URI put the address of the network printer in format "socket://address:port".  Port can be left blank if default (9100).  Click "Continue"
  # For Make/Manufacturer, select "Raw" from the list of manufacturers and click "Continue"
  # For "Model" click "Raw Queue (en)" which should be the only option in the drop-down menu.  Click "Add Printer".  Note:  If prompted for a password, enter a username and password with administrative access on the Mac.  You may be prompted twice.
  # Your printer has been added.  You will see a message confirming this. Ignore Banners and Policies prompt.  In the next steps, you will add a Printer Class for your new printer to show in OS X's Print Manager.
  # Click the "Administration" tab and click the "Add Class" button.
  # Fill out "Name".  This must not conflict with the printer name from Step 2.   Fill out the "Description" with what you would like the printer listed as in OS X.
  # Your printer class has been added.  You will see a message confirming this.
  # Navigate to "System Preferences" --> "Print and Fax", and your new raw printer should appear.
  # Your applications should now be able to print to the Zebra printer as a raw printing device.
  # End of Steps

-Tres