#summary Setting up raw printing on OSX 10.8
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy,Phase-Support

If you are unsure if you need raw printing, please read here first:  [WhatIsRawPrinting]

= Background =

These steps will allow a USB or Network attached printer to receive raw commands through a Safari web browser on OSX.  This will also work for any 64-bit capable browser, such as Firefox that can run Java applets.  At the time of writing this, Chrome for OSX is 32-bit only and will not work with Oracle Java 1.7 64-bit runtime.

The sample.html provided with jZebra is intended to run from the local file system, however Oracle Java will not run the applet unless it is hosted from a web server.  [http://www.mamp.info MAMP] is recommended for this, which will run a portable web server on your Mac Desktop.  Installing and configuring MAMP is outside the scope of this tutorial.

= Steps =
  # Visit [http://java.com/verify/] to confirm Java is installed and running properly
  # Optional:  Enable the Java console in System Preferences, Java, Advanced, Java Console, Show Console (Highly recommended for web developers)
  # Open a Terminal window: *⌘+space, `terminal`, enter*
  # Enable CUPS web interface by entering this into the Terminal <br>*{{{sudo cupsctl WebInterface=yes}}}*
  # Load Safari to *[http://localhost:631]*  and click The "Administration" tab, then "Add Printer"<br>
  # If you see your USB raw printer in the listing *DO NOT* select it.
  # Click *AppSocket/HP JetDirect*, Continue.
  # You will be prompted for a port
   * For USB printers type: (Example)<br>*{{{usb://Zebra/LP2844}}}*<br>Get this port by issuing the command *`lpinfo -v |grep usb:`* from the Terminal.  You don't need the "?location=1a200000" information.
   * For network printers type: (Example)<br>*{{{socket://192.168.254.254:9100}}}*<br>The IP address may be configured to use a different address, which is outside of the scope of this tutorial.

[http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSGzZf7RdI/AAAAAAAAAPQ/wVsOful7too/s1600/Picture+2.png http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSGzZf7RdI/AAAAAAAAAPQ/wVsOful7too/s400/Picture+2.png]<br><br>
  # Be patient as the CUPS server responds to the new printer request<br>[http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSGzoGMQHI/AAAAAAAAAPY/Ey5aHQaxQAs/s1600/Picture+3.png http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSGzoGMQHI/AAAAAAAAAPY/Ey5aHQaxQAs/s400/Picture+3.png]<br><br>
  # For device, leave default "AppSocket/HP JetDirect" and click "Continue"<br>[http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSGzuGogNI/AAAAAAAAAPg/gpeH0vf8bq8/s1600/Picture+4.png http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSGzuGogNI/AAAAAAAAAPg/gpeH0vf8bq8/s400/Picture+4.png]<br><br>
  # For URI put the address of the network printer in format "`socket://address:port`".  Port can be left blank if default (9100).  Click "Continue"<br>||*Note:*  "lpinfo -v" from a terminal might help for USB printers||<br>[http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSHxI3sa4I/AAAAAAAAAPw/dSVeNpyzyZQ/s1600/Picture+5.png http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSHxI3sa4I/AAAAAAAAAPw/dSVeNpyzyZQ/s400/Picture+5.png]<br><br>
  # For Make/Manufacturer, select "Raw" from the list of manufacturers and click "Continue"<br>[http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSHxCVBL9I/AAAAAAAAAP4/riLF3pI4yPE/s1600/Picture+6.png http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSHxCVBL9I/AAAAAAAAAP4/riLF3pI4yPE/s400/Picture+6.png]<br><br>
  # For "Model" click "Raw Queue (en)" which should be the only option in the drop-down menu.  Click "Add Printer".  Note:  If prompted for a password, enter a username and password with administrative access on the Mac.  You may be prompted twice.<br>[http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSHxWL2PII/AAAAAAAAAQA/rnGp4pPml0I/s1600/Picture+7.png http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSHxWL2PII/AAAAAAAAAQA/rnGp4pPml0I/s400/Picture+7.png]<br><br>
  # Your printer has been added.  You will see a message confirming this. Ignore Banners and Policies prompt.  In the next steps, you will add a Printer Class for your new printer to show in OS X's Print Manager.<br>[http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSHxYvp13I/AAAAAAAAAQI/hqX2jl1fPGM/s1600/Picture+8.png http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSHxYvp13I/AAAAAAAAAQI/hqX2jl1fPGM/s400/Picture+8.png]<br><br>
  # Click the "Administration" tab and click the "Add Class" button.<br>[http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSHxkGyRnI/AAAAAAAAAQQ/r8CWfwM5D7Q/s1600/Picture+9.png http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSHxkGyRnI/AAAAAAAAAQQ/r8CWfwM5D7Q/s400/Picture+9.png]<br><br>
  # Fill out "Name".  This must not conflict with the printer name from Step 2.   Fill out the "Description" with what you would like the printer listed as in OS X.<br>[http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSH4gF66tI/AAAAAAAAAQY/fpqCNeHwQcI/s1600/Picture+10.png http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSH4gF66tI/AAAAAAAAAQY/fpqCNeHwQcI/s400/Picture+10.png]<br><br>
  # Your printer class has been added.  You will see a message confirming this.<br>[http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSH47_spyI/AAAAAAAAAQg/B-14b7kdQMw/s1600/Picture+11.png http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSH47_spyI/AAAAAAAAAQg/B-14b7kdQMw/s400/Picture+11.png]<br><br>
  # Navigate to "System Preferences" --> "Print and Fax", and your new raw printer should appear.<br>[http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSH5DpbDlI/AAAAAAAAAQo/hd9-X_3gIv0/s1600/Picture+12.png http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_9hmP3Ho0t14/SvSH5DpbDlI/AAAAAAAAAQo/hd9-X_3gIv0/s400/Picture+12.png]<br><br>
  # Your applications should now be able to print to the Zebra printer as a raw printing device.
  # End of Steps

-Tres