#summary Instructions for reusing a ZPL graphic on a Zebra S4M printer
#labels Phase-Implementation

Printer Model: Zebra S4M

First problem: I would like to send raw commands to the printer via browser
|| *Solution:* Use jZebra ||

Second problem: How can I print images?
|| *Solution:* First of all you need to upload your image to the printer’s memory, so you can call it back. ||

Third problem: The easiest way to upload an image to the printer is via Zebra’s Software.

|| A brief explanation: Reading the manual, you’ll see that before you upload any image, you need to convert the normal image (.png .jpg….) to hexadecimal, and handle with a lot of bytes, than you upload this bytes.<br><br>Also you have 3 options to store your image, the first one is to upload your image to a volatile memory, which is erased when the printer shutdown. The second is store it in a flash drive (this is what I did, and works fine to me), and just call it from your code. The last one is write a “script” which is executed in every printer's boot, this script should be stored in a flash drive too. ||

|| *Solution:* I used the second solution because I didn’t want to handle with a lots of bytes. The steps is very easy and anyone can do it: ||

  # Open Zebra Setup Utilities > double-click in your printer
  # Switch to tab named Printer Memory, in section “Flash” select “Memory Card”, and in Connected File select MSung or any other with sufficient space. Then click in OK.
  # Click in Download Fonts and Graphics > Card > Printer Selection > and select your printer.
  # In Memory Card Slot select “Flash”.
  # Now, in Pictures > Add, choose your image. Next you’ll prompted if you want to download that image, click in YES, it will upload your image to printer’s memory.
  # Now you are able to call your image from the source! Here is an example:

||`^XA`<br>`^FT`<font color="red">`32,128`</font>`^XG`<font color="blue">`MYIMAGE.GRF`</font>`,1,1^FS`<br>`^XZ` <br><br>*Note:* Programming Language: ZPLII ||

  * <font color="red">Numbers in red means the coordinates where the image will start to be print.</font>

  * <font color="blue">The text in blue is your image name. (.GRF is the extension, my image was a MYIMAGE.png, but Zebras’ Software will automatically do the conversion for you, so forget the hexadecimal and the bytes!)</font>

-Bruno